# Quantify View Cells (QVC)

Perform quantification of cells across images in parallel and inspect the results

## Background

When analyzing data collected from high-throughput microscopy, researchers often
need to perform quantification of features (most often cells) from large collections
of image files. The process of quantifying the cells from a single image is often
performed using a custom analysis script which can be executed with a program like
MATLAB. The result of that script's analysis may include both an image which summarizes
the segmentation or feature identification process which was conducted by the script,
as well as a table summarizing each of the features (or cells) which were quantified
from the image.

## Purpose

The purpose of this repository is to:

1. Provide a Nextflow-based workflow for executing an image analysis script in parallel
across many images, and
2. Provide an interactive display for exploring the results of that analysis across
all images

## Approach

To start the analysis, a user will need:

1. A MATLAB script which will analyze a single image and produce outputs which include
both an image and a table of data
2. A sample sheet which lists the location of each image which is to be quantified, as
well as any additional metadata available for each image

The QVC workflow will run the MATLAB script on each of the listed images and collect the
results from each one into a single output folder. Subsequently, the user may elect
to interactively view those results in the QVC viewer, which will provide an opportunity
to review the effectiveness of the image analysis, while also generating figures summarizing
the distribution of values which were generated by the analysis script.

## Usage

NOTE: This script must be run on a system which has MATLAB installed, or which is available
via a system like EasyBuild. This workflow does NOT support the use of Docker/Singularity
containers for running MATLAB.

```
Usage:

nextflow run FredHutch/quantify-view-cells <ARGUMENTS>

Required Arguments:
    --function_call         Formatted function call which will analyze an image
                            (named '{czifile}') and write an output (named 'output.mat').
                            The function call is formatted to include keyword arguments inside {} braces.
                            The only required parameter is "{czifile}", and all others must
                            be referenced with the --parameters flag as described below.
    --parameters            Any additional parameters to be used with the function call can
                            be specified with a semi-colon delimited list. For example, the function

                                "[data, dataT, O]=FunctionName('{czifile}',{idx},{paramA},{paramB});writetable(dataT, 'output.csv');imwrite(O,'output.tif','tiff')"
                            
                            Could be run with the following parameters:

                                "idx=1;paramA=10,20,30,40;paramB=40-50;"

                            With the effect of executing the analysis for each image with all possible
                            combinations of those variables. Note that commas indicate a list of specific
                            values, while a dash is used to specify all integers in that range (inclusive).

    --assets                Any additional files which should be present in the working
                            directory in order for the script to run.
                            Multiple files (or folders) can be specified with a comma-delimited
                            list, while also supporting wildcards. Double wildcards cross directory boundaries.
    --sample_sheet          List of images to process using the specified analysis.
                            The file must be in CSV format, and the path to the image must be
                            listed in a column named 'uri'.
    --output                Path to output directory

Optional Arguments:
    --module                If specified, load the specified EasyBuild module(s). Multiple modules may be specified in a colon-delimited list.
    --max_threads           If needed, limit the number of concurrent processes
    --output_csv            Name of the CSV produced by the analysis script (default: output.csv)
    --output_img            Name of the image produced by the analysis script (default: output.tif)

Webpage: https://github.com/FredHutch/quantify-view-cells
```

## Preparing Your Code

The guiding principle for this workflow is that a user has created a set of files
which can be parsed by MATLAB and executed on a single image input (.czi) to produce
two files, an image output and a table of data in CSV format. To make this as flexible
as possible, the user can invoke their code using the following flags:

- `function_call`: The actual MATLAB code which is invoked to process a single image input file.
Any variables may be specified with `{variableName}`, and all functions must use `{czifile}` to indicate
the position of the filename used for the input file. This code will be executed as part of the
command: `matlab -nodisplay -nosplash -nodesktop -r {function_call}`
- `parameters`: Additional values may be supplied for any other parameters used in the function call,
following the pattern described in the help text above.
- `assets`: All of the MATLAB files which will be present in the working directory when the above function is called. Wildcards make this flag more convenient to format, with `/path/to/folder/**.m` being sufficient to identify all of the files ending with `.m` across all subdirectories under `/path/to/folder/`. More than one file or glob can be specified as a comma-delimited list (no spaces).
- `output_csv`: Use this flag to specify the name of the output CSV which is produced by the function call.
- `output_img`: Use this flag to specify the name of the output image which is produced by the function call.
- `max_threads`: Use this flag to limit the number of concurrent processes, to avoid going over any license limits.

## Output Files

After running the workflow, three files will be copied to the output directory:

- `output_images.tar.gz`: A compressed archive containing all of the image outputs.
The name of each file will be `{ix}.{output_img}`, where `{ix}` is the number of the line
from the sample sheet which listed the input image, and `{output_img}` is the name
of the image output by the MATLAB code.
- `feature.info.csv.gz`: A table in CSV format which combines all of the outputs produced
from all images. The `ix` column indicates which image was used to generate the outputs.
- `image.summary.csv.gz`: A table in CSV format which contains the median numeric value
for each image, for every column of the feature info table which only contains numbers.
